BOB UECKER IS WITH US TONIGHT.
NOW HE'S BEEN WITH US
IN THE PAST AND HE IS
A FORMER BIG LEAGUE BALL PLAYER
WHO IS EXCEEDINGLY MODEST
ABOUT HIS ACCOMPLISHMENTS
ON THE FIELD,
AND WITH GOOD REASON.
[ LAUGHTER ]
HE SAYS THAT HIMSELF.
HE'S THE VOICE
OF THE MILWAUKEE BREWER'S,
HE'S A FREQUENT COMMENTATOR
ON NATIONALLY TELEVISED GAMES,
AND SINCE THE BASEBALL PLAYERS
ARE ON STRIKE
MAYBE HE CAN KIND OF
FILL US IN ON WHAT'S HAPPENING.
WOULD YOU WELCOME BOB UECKER,
MR. BASEBALL?
[ MUSIC ]
SOME PEOPLE ARE OUTRAGED
THAT THERE IS A STRIKE,
AS YOU KNOW SOME PEOPLE
COULDN'T CARE LESS.
SOME PEOPLE ARE ANGRY
AT THE PLAYERS,
AT THE OWNERS.
THE FANS ARE UP IN ARMS.
WHAT IS GOING ON,
HOW IS IT AFFECTING YOU?
YOU'RE NOT TELECASTING
OBVIOUSLY.
>> NO NOT BROADCASTING
OR TELECASTING JOHN,
IT'S GIVEN ME A CHANCE--
THE STRIKE HAS BEEN ON
FOR A COUPLE OF WEEKS NOW.
>> RIGHT.
>> AND IT'S GIVEN ME A CHANCE
TO FULFILL MY ARMY DUTY,
I WENT AWOL IN 1956.
[ LAUGHTER ]
AND I THOUGHT THIS THING
WOULD BE ON FOR AWHILE
SO I THOUGHT
WHY NOT GET IT OUT OF THE WAY.
SO I WENT TO CAMP McCOY
WISCONSIN,
A PLACE ABOUT 40 MILES
OUTSIDE OF MILWAUKEE.
AND KIND OF TURNED MYSELF IN,
I GUESS IS
WHAT IT BOILED DOWN TO.
>> SURE.
>> AND AFTER GOING OVER
THE RECORDS AND EVERYTHING
THEY FOUND I HAD 14 DAYS LEAVE
COMING SO--
[ LAUGHTER ]
ENABLED ME TO COME OUT
AND DO THE SHOW.
I LEFT RIGHT WHEN WE WERE DOING
GRENADE THROWING--
I WAS PERMANENT LATRINE ORDERLY
WHEN I JOINED THE SERVICE.
AND IT WAS A SERGEANT
INSPECTING THE LATRINE ONE DAY
AND CAME AND TOLD ME
HE THOUGHT I HAD A CHANCE
TO PLAY MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL.
>> RIGHT.
>> AND THERE OF COURSE
IS A CINDERELLA STORY.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
[ LAUGHTER ]
LATRINE TO RICHES
I GUESS YOU COULD CALL IT.
>> YEAH I GUESS.
I HEARD YOU MENTION [ BEEP ]
FOR THE FIRST TIME,
I WAS A LITTLE SURPRISED.
>> YEAS THAT KIND OF JUMPED OUT
AND I SHOULDN'T HAVE SAID THAT.
>> BUT IT BROUGHT BACK
THAT STORY FOR ME.
[ LAUGHTER ]
>> KIND OF TIPPED OFF
YOUR HUMOR THERE, SURE.
BY ASSOCIATION I CAN SEE THAT.
NOW AS A FORMER PLAYER,
I ASSUME AND I MAY BE WRONG,
THAT YOU TAKE THE SIDE
OF THE PLAYERS IN THIS STRIKE.
>> WELL--
>> YOU NEVER MADE THE BIG BUCKS
DID YOU?
>> NO I DIDN'T,
MY TOP SALARY WAS $23,000
AND THAT WAS AFTER ABOUT
12, 13 YEARS.
ABOUT 75% OF THAT CAME FROM
STEALING OTHER PLAYER'S
EQUIPMENT AND SELLING IT.
[ LAUGHTER ]
>> SO YOU HAVE ABOUT
7 OR $8, 000 ACTUALLY SALARY
AND THIS WAS--
>> YEAH ABOUT EIGHT GRAND,
THE REST LIKE SWEATSHIRTS
AND GLOVES AND STUFF.
WHICH ARE PREMIUM ITEMS
FOR SOME PEOPLE.
BUT I DON'T REALLY TAKE THE SIDE
OF EITHER THE PLAYERS
OR THE OWNERS,
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT IS
GOING TO HAVE TO BE WORKED OUT
AMONG THEMSELVES.
THE MEETINGS THAT
THEY'VE BEEN HAVING
REALLY HAVEN'T BEEN
GOING TOO WELL.
FANS GET AGGRAVATED, I GUESS,
SOMETIMES WITH THE HUGE SALARIES
THAT ARE BEING PAID TO--
NOT ONLY BASEBALL
BUT FOOTBALL
AND BASKETBALL PLAYERS.
I'VE COME UP WITH SOMETHING
I THINK WOULD KIND OF
TAKE THE HEAT OFF OF
A LOT OF PLAYERS
WHEN THEY GET THE MAJOR LEAGUES.
MAYBE TO START
A LITTLE LEAGUE PLAYER,
MAYBE A NINE OR TEN YEAR OLD KID
WITH A $10,000 A YEAR SALARY.
>> WHILE THEY'RE IN
LITTLE LEAGUE?
>> IN LITTLE LEAGUE BASEBALL.
FOR A HIGH SCHOOL SENIOR,
IF HE'S A DECENT SENIOR,
MAYBE 55, $60,000.
AND THEN ON TO A COLLEGE PLAYER,
MAYBE A COLLEGE PLAYER
COMING OUT OF COLLEGE
WHERE YOU'RE PAYING HIM
125 OR $135 THOUSAND A YEAR.
IT'S NOT GOING TO BE
THAT BIG OF A SHOCK
TO THE SPORT FAN
WHEN HE SIGNS FOR
THESE KINDS OF BONUSES.
IT'S ALSO GOING TO BE
A GREAT INCENTIVE FOR PARENTS
TO GET THOSE LITTLE LEAGUERS
TO THEIR GAMES ON TIME.
[ LAUGHTER ]
>> ABSOLUTELY.
[ APPLAUSE ]
NOT A BAD IDEA.
>> NO AS I SAID,
THE STRIKE THING--
YOU KNOW THE MEETINGS
THAT THEY HAVE--
>> WHAT DO THEY TALK ABOUT
IN THE MEETING?
I DON'T EVEN KNOW
WHAT THEY'RE ARGUING ABOUT.
>> WELL THE OWNER'S
BIG ARGUMENT NOW IS THAT
WHILE THE STRIKE IS GOING ON,
THEY WANT TO SHOW MOVIES
AT THE BALLPARK,
"PRIDE TO THE YANKEES",
THE BABE RUTH STORY.
AND CHARGE ADMISSION TO FANS
WHERE YOU'RE NOT TOTALLY
GETTING PRIVATE BASEBALL.
THE PRIDE OF THE YANKEES,
GEORGE STEINBRENNER,
THE OWNERS THOUGHT
THAT WAS A NEW PLAYER
AND HE WANTED TO SIGN HIM
AS A FREE AGENT.
[ LAUGHTER ]
BUT THINGS LIKE THIS--
THE MEETING
THAT THEY'RE HAVING--
YOU KNOW THEY MEET
FOR A COUPLE OF HOURS,
SOMETIMES HALF HOUR,
90 MINUTES, AND WALK OUT.
THE BIG THING
IS THE COMPENSATION.
IF A PLAYER HAS LOST
A FREE AGENCY
FROM TEAM TO ANOTHER,
THE TEAM THAT HE GOES FROM
DEMANDS A PLAYER
OF EQUAL ABILITY.
>> FROM THE OTHER TEAM?
>> FROM THE OTHER TEAM,
THE TEAM THAT
THE FREE AGENT GOES TO.
>> NOW I UNDERSTAND THAT
NOW THEY GET A CHOICE
OF A DRAFT OF--
>> HIGH SCHOOL DRAFT.
>> OF AN AMATEUR PLAYER.
>> RIGHT AN AMATEUR PLAYER.
AND WHO'S TO SAY
THAT AN AMATEUR PLAYER
IS EVER GOING TO MAKE IT
TO THE MAJOR LEAGUES.
I MEAN THERE ARE SOME
GREAT HIGH SCHOOL PLAYERS,
I DON'T WANT TO
TAKE ANYTHING AWAY
FROM HIGH SCHOOL DRAFTEES.
>> LET'S SUPPOSE THERE WAS
NO DRAFT AT ALL,
JUST FOR EXAMPLE,
IN PROFESSIONAL SPORTS.
THIS WOULD CREATE A PROBLEM
BUT LET'S SUPPOSE THERE WOULD BE
NO DRAFT AT ALL.
ANYBODY CAN GO AFTER
THE PLAYERS,
THE PLAYERS CAN SIGN WITH
ANYBODY THEY WANT TO
AND MAKE A DEAL, AND SO FORTH.
IF THEY SIGN FOR TWO YEARS
THEY GOT A DEAL AND THAT'S IT.
WHAT HAPPENS THERE?
>> WHAT ABOUT THE FREE AGENCY
A FEW YEARS AGO JOHN,
BASEBALL PLAYERS
GOT THE RIGHT TO FREE AGENCY.
>> RIGHT.
>> IT ENABLED THEM
TO LEAVE A BALL CLUB--
YOU KNOW YEARS AGO
WHEN YOU SIGNED WITH
A MAJOR LEAGUE TEAM OR
YOU SIGNED WITH
AN ORGANIZATION--
>> YOU HAVE TO PLAY WITH THEM.
>> THAT'S RIGHT, FOREVER.
UNTIL THEY RELEASE YOU,
OR TRADED, SOLD, OR WHATEVER.
SO YOU WERE THERE FOREVER.
>> WHAT WAS YOUR SITUATION,
WERE YOU TRADED?
>> I WAS TRADED, SOLD,
RELEASED--
[ LAUGHTER ]
>> BARTERED?
>> YEAH THE WHOLE THING,
I DID THE WHOLE THING.
SO YOU KNOW I'VE BEEN THERE
THROUGH ALL OF IT.
TO ME THE ONLY DRAFT
I WORRIED ABOUT WAS THE SERVICE.
REALLY THE SERVICE.
WHEN YOU'RE A PLAYER
OF MY ABILITY--
AND I DON'T WANT TO
KNOCK PLAYERS NOWADAYS,
BUT AS I SAID BEFORE
MINE WAS A CINDERELLA STORY
AND I DON'T HAVE TO
STAND UP HERE AND
BLOW SMOKE AT MYSELF
OR ANYTHING ELSE.
MY RECORD SPEAKS FOR ITSELF.
TO BE THE KIND OF PLAYER
THAT I WAS,
TO BE PAID BY COMPANIES
TO NOT ENDORSE PRODUCTS--
[ LAUGHTER ]
HOW MANY PLAYERS CAN CLAIM THAT?
>> NOT MANY FELLOWS
REACH THAT LEVEL.
>> THEY'RE NOT,
I DON'T THINK THERE'S ANY JOHN,
I REALLY DON'T.
AND YOU KNOW
YOU FOLLOW BASEBALL,
YOU FOLLOW MY CAREER NOW
FOR THE LAST 12 YEARS.
>> RIGHT.
>> AND I'M NOT GOING TO SAY
THAT I'VE THRILLED ANYBODY
BUT I KNOW WHAT I'VE DONE.
I'M A BIG PART OF BASEBALL AND--
>> FANS JUST COME UP
KNOWING THAT I KNOW YOU.
>> I KNOW THEY DO.
>> AND THEY'RE HAPPY
JUST TO SAY,
"YOU KNOW BOB UECKER DON'T YOU?"
AND I SAY, "YES."
>> AND I GET THE SAME DEAL
WHEREVER I GO ABOUT YOU.
PEOPLE SAY, "YOU KNOW JOHNNY."
AND I SAY,
"THAT'S RIGHT I DO KNOW HIM."
AND NOW I'M JUST
TRAVELING AROUND THE COUNTRY.
TOMORROW EVENING I'LL BE
IN THE CRATERS OF THE MOON,
IDAHO.
[ LAUGHTER ]
>> LITTLE SPEAKING ENGAGEMENT
THERE?
>> YEAH, IT'S A FEE OF COURSE,
I'M ON STRIKE NOW.
>> SEE, I DIDN'T MENTION
YOUR INCOME.
>> YEAH I'M DOING A THING
TOMORROW ON ACNE
ON MAJOR LEAGUE BALL PLAYERS.
[ LAUGHTER ]
HOW THEY FIGHT IT,
HOW THEY COMBAT IT,
WHAT PLAYERS GET BY WITH
YOU KNOW, WITHOUT IT,
AND WHAT PLAYERS
DON'T CARE ABOUT IT.
>> AN INSIDE STORY.
>> RIGHT, IT'S SOMETHING
I THINK THAT SHOULD BE
BROUGHT OUT,
SPORTS WRITERS
WON'T TALK ABOUT IT,
MAGAZINES WONT PRINT IT.
BUT I'M HERE TO TELL YOU THAT
THERE ARE CERTAIN PLAYERS THAT
HAVE ACNE AND LET'S GET IT ON.
>> IT HAS TO BE TOLD.
I THINK SO, DAMN RIGHT,
IT HAS TO BE TOLD.
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT.
>> I THINK IT'S THE ONLY WAY
TO GO.
>> RIGHT, WE'LL TAKE A BREAK
AND WE'LL BE RIGHT BACK
ALRIGHT WE'RE BACK,
WE'RE TALKING WITH MR. BASEBALL
BOB UECKER.
BALL PLAYERS
GENERALLY PLAY, WHAT?
SEVEN MONTHS A YEAR,
NOW THEY'RE OFF, THEY'RE HOME.
DOES THIS CHANGE
THE WHOLE SCHEDULE
BECAUSE THE GUYS ARE
ALL AWAY DURING THE YEAR?
DO THEY GET OUT OF SHAPE?
IF THERE WAS AN END
TO THE STRIKE TOMORROW,
IT'S GOING TO
TAKE THE BALLPLAYERS
A COUPLE OF WEEKS
TO GET BACK IN SHAPE.
>> YEAH VERY DEFINITELY.
I WOULD THINK MORE SO
FOR THE PITCHERS.
THE LONGER THIS THING GOES,
THE LONGER IT'S GOING TO TAKE.
IF THIS THING GOES A MONTH,
MONTH AND A HALF,
MAY BE TWO MONTHS,
THEY WOULD HAVE TO GO THROUGH
SPRING TRAINING AGAIN.
THEY REALLY WOULD BECAUSE
I DON'T THINK PLAYERS--
AND I THINK
THIS HAS COME FROM
THE PLAYERS ASSOCIATION,
THEY TOLD THEM NOT TO WORK OUT.
THAT WOULD BE
DEFEATING THEIR PURPOSE
AS FAR AS THE STRIKE GOES.
>> OH, I SEE.
>> SO YOU KNOW THEY'RE AT HOME
HANGING AROUND THEIR WIVES
AND EVERYTHING.
I THINK THE BIG THING WITH THAT
IT'S GOING TO PRODUCE
A BIGGER FATHER AND SON
AND DAUGHTER GAME NEXT YEAR.
[ LAUGHTER ]
>> PROBABLY TRUE,
NEVER THOUGHT OF THAT.
>> BUT IT REALLY IS
A TOUGH THING JOHN,
IT REALLY IS.
YOU KNOW YOU LOOK AT THE--
I THINK THE PUBLIC THINKS THAT
PLAYERS MAKE A LOT OF MONEY,
THEY ALL DON'T MAKE
A LOT OF MONEY.
I THINK THEY THINK
OWNERSHIP MAKES A LOT OF MONEY,
ALL OWNERS
DON'T MAKE A LOT OF MONEY.
THE CHICAGO CUBS THE OTHER DAY
WERE SOLD TO THE--
[ APPLAUSE ]
CHICAGO TRIBUNE.
I THINK WHAT THAT'S GOING TO DO
COME NEXT WINTER,
I THINK IT'S A GREAT MOVE
FOR THE CUBS.
I THINK FOR THE PEOPLE
IN CHICAGO
TO BE ABLE TO BUY A PAPER
ON A CERTAIN STREET
CORNER FROM CUB PLAYERS.
[ LAUGHTER ]
I THINK--
>> KIND OF A ONE ON ONE.
>> I THINK IF YOU'RE GOING TO
STAY WITH THE ORGANIZATION THEN
WHY NOT GO ALL THE WAY?
>> THAT'S RIGHT,
GET OUT THERE AND HUSTLE PAPERS.
>> WATCH OUT FOR THE GUYS
RIDING BIKES WHO ARE
DELIVERING NEIGHBORHOOD STUFF,
THEY GOT GREAT ARMS.
THEY'RE GOING TO BREAK ARMS
AND LEGS WHEN THEY FIRE A PAPER.
THERE ARE GOING TO BE DOORS,
WINDOWS, EVERYTHING ELSE.
IT'S A GOOD MOVE.
>> KEEP IT IN THE FAMILY.
>> I THINK IT'S A GREAT MOVE,
I REALLY DO.
>> YEAH, SO RIGHT NOW
YOU'RE JUST GOING OUT
AND DOING SOME ENGAGEMENTS?
>> YEAH, I'LL BE FOLLOWING
THE CRATERS OF THE MOON DEAL
TOMORROW NIGHT,
I'LL BE IN MERIDIAN, IDAHO
FOR MY UNSPORTSMANLIKE
CONDUCT SCHOOL
WHICH IS REALLY NOW--
WITH THE STRIKE
GOING THE WAY IT IS,
THIS THING
IS REALLY STARTING TO GO NOW.
>> STARTING TO ZOOM.
>> TO TEACH YOUNGSTERS FOOTBALL,
A REFEREE THROWS A FLAG,
PICK IT UP,
BLOW YOUR NOSE
AND HAND IT BACK TO HIM.
[ LAUGHTER ]
DON'T BE AFRAID TO TAKE A SHOT
AT AN EMPIRE ONCE IN AWHILE.
I MEAN KIDS LIKE THIS,
RIGHT HERE YOU KNOW.
>> GET THEM WHILE THEY'RE YOUNG.